
for 
UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE. 
MAX. G. SCHINKE, ÓF MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN. 
SUBMERGED PPE. 
SPECIFICATION forming part of Letters Patent No. 486,986, dated November 29, 1892. 
Application filed July 27, 1892, Serial No, 441,376, (No model.) 
Be it known that I, MAX G. SCHINKE, a citi 
zen of the United States, and a resident of 
Milwaukee, in the county of Milwaukee, and 
in the State of Wisconsin, have invented cer 
tain new and useful Improvements in Sub 
merged Pipes; and I do hereby declare that 
the following is a full, clear, and exact de 
scription thereof. 
My invention relates particularly to the lay 
To all whom it may concern: 
ing of submerged pipe where heretofore the 
services of a diver have been required to ad 
just the pipe in position and calk the joints 
under water; and the object of said invention 
is to provide flexible water-tight.joints (atin 
tervals of the submerged-pipe system) having 
protective casings, the joints and casings be 
ing completed above water and then lowered 
to position. - . 
Having stated the object of my invention, 
the latter consists in certain peculiarities of 
35 
40 
construction and combination of parts here 
inafter described with reference to the accom 
panying drawings and subsequently claimed. 
In the drawings, Figure 1 represents a sec 
tional view of a flexible pipe-joint construct 
ed according to my invention as it appears 
when two non-flexible sections of the joint 
are at an angle to each other; Fig. 2, a simi 
lar view of the joint on a straight line, and 
Fig. 3 a diagram illustrating my improved 
manner of laying submerged pipe. . . 
Referring by letter to the drawings, A B 
represent opposing pipe-sections of non-flexi 
ble material-such as iron-that in practice 
are joined to an intermediate pipe-section C, 
of lead or other suitable flexible material, this latter pipe-section being preferably corrugat 
ed. As shown, the flexible pipe-section is 
joined at its ends to the adjacent ends of the 
opposing non-flexible pipe-sections by clamp 
ing-rings D E of suitable material-such as 
iron-the joints being calked with lead or 
other suitable materiala in order to be Water 
45 
So 
tight, and, as is also shown, the clamping 
rings are preferably integral with sections of 
spherical casings designed to protect said 
flexible pipe-section from external mechani 
cal influences and forces, as well as to guide 
and limit the movement of the flexible water 
?????? 
tight joint when being lowered to its sub 
merged position, as will be hereinafter more 
fully described. 
As illustrated, the ring D, that clamps the 
flexible pipe-section C to the non-flexible pipe 
section A, has a rearward bell-like extension 
F, terminating in an outturned annular flange 
d, and external longitudinal ribs c are cast 
with said ring and its extension to form guides 
for an inturned annular flange b on a collar 
G, that is provided with an exterior flange e, 
strengthened by webs f, having a series of 
bolt-openings therein, these openings being 
designed for registration with similar open 
ings in an opposing fangeg on a bell-like for 
ward extension H of the ring E, that clamps 
said flexible pipe-section to the non-flexible 
pipe-section B, the inner end of this latter 
ring being preferably in the form of a flange 
h in opposition to the corrugated portion of 
the aforesaid flexible pipe-section. The bell 
like extensions of the clamping-rings form 
the spherical casing for the guidance of the 
55 
flexible pipe-section, as well as its protec 
tion from external mechanical influences and 
forces, these sections of the casing having a 
sliding motion one upon the other to permit 
of the non-flexible pipe-sections being brought 
to various angles of deflection. 
It is preferable to have the interior of the 
clamping-rings somewhatconical and to flange 
the ends of the non-flexible pipe-sections, 
these flanges serving as stops for the calking, 
while the conical interiors of said clamping 
rings is a matter of detail and expediency to 
Ward obtaining the tightest possible joint be 
tWeen said non-flexible pipe-sections and the 
intermediate flexible one, the joint of the spherical protective casing being completed 
by bolting the flanged collar G to the flanged 
extension H of the clamping-ring E, above specified. 
The work of laying the pipe being done 
from a staging or vessel, any convenient or 
desirable number of non - flexible pipe-sec 
tions may be joined together by other than 
flexible connections if preferred; but at cer 
tain intervals in the line of the pipe system 
I necessarily employ the flexible joint herein 
before specified. 
75 
9o 
95 
OO 
O 
15 
As shown in Fig. 3, a length of submerged 
pipe is lifted above water at one end (the 
other end of this length being also provided 
with a flexible joint) and held at an angle to 
the water-level. The present upper outer 
flexible pipe-section having been primarily 
prepared for the required angle of deflection 
and the new length brought to position to be 
joined, the several parts constituting the flexi 
ble joint and protective casing are put to 
gether in proper succession and said flexible 
pipe-section connected water-tight to the ends 
of the rigid sections. Upon completion of the 
flexible joint and its casing the same are low 
ered and the free end of the added length of 
non-flexible pipe held above water for imme 
diate further connection or temporarily low 
ered to be lifted at a convenient time. 
25 
30 
I am aware of various flexible pipe-coup 
lings; but none of these are adapted to my 
purpose-the laying of submerged water or 
gas pipe of large size-and at this point in 
the description it is proper to emphasize the 
fact that the flexible pipe-section herein de 
scribed is cast or rolled without joints. It is 
also to be observed that the protective oasing 
is devoid of pivots and that the ends of the 
non-flexible pipe-sections do not have to be 
especially prepared in casting or otherwise 
for their connection with said flexible pipe 
section, it being my purpose to flexibly join 
as set forth. 
486,986 
sections of water or gas pipe such as is in 
common tse. 
Having now fully described my invention, 
what I claim as new, and desire to secure by 35 
Letters Patent, is 1. In submerged pipe, the combination of 
two non-flexible pipe-sections, an intermedi 
ate flexible pipe-section engaging the ends of 
the former sections, but free to be bent to va- 4o 
rious angles, clamping-rings arranged on the W 
engaged pipe-sections, and calking material 
inter between the ends of said non-flexi 
ble and flexible pipe-sections, substantially 
- 45 
2. In submerged pipe, two non-flexible pipe 
sections, an intermediate flexible pipe-section 
engaging the ends of the formersections, but 
free to be bent to various angles, and suit able means for forming water-tight connec 
tion between said pipe-sections, in combina 
tion with a guidling and protective casing that 
incloses the joint formed by said pipe-sec 
tions, substantially as set forth. 
In testimony that I claim the foregoing I 55 
have hereunto set my hand, at Milwaukee, in 
the county of Milwaukee and State of Wis 
consin, in the prasence of two witnesses. 
MAX G. SCHINKE. 
Witnesses: 
N. E. OLPHLANT, 
JOHN E. WILES. 
